Yeah, ours, except the summer, we had jobs in the
summertime. Ours was classroom instruction. And
we were involved, of course, with leadership,
everything about leadership. And how many
courses did you teach a semester? How'd they work?
Did you teach one in psychology and one in
leadership? What was your teaching load like? It
was a progressive psychology with a plea for the
first year, basic psychology. And then it
progressed on leadership to finally the first
class, when Pat went to Massachusetts, preparing
them for those situations. Role players, role
players. Situations that they could be in the
front. And it worked, too, because I told you about
the cadets not going to a basic course after
graduation and got into Korea. And I talked to them
while I was there. I went over with General Taylor,
Maxwell Taylor. Now, there's an outstanding,
there's an intellectual for you. Tell me about
him. Oh, he's a... He's one, too, he's got just as
near to all the qualities that I think that a
rounded leader would possess as Marshall. You
know, he's in that pattern. Except he's got one
advantage over Marshall. He's a real handsome
guy. He's a, even at old age now, he's up in his
seventies, he's still a, he still is a Hollywood
looking, because he has nice hair features, and
he's done everything. He's an airborne
commander. He's written books. He's an
intellectual, can sit down with any Ph.D. and any
inspector he wants to. He's not an expert on
everything, but he's sure got a speaking
knowledge of practically anything you want to
discuss. Because he's a scholar. He's still
studying right now. And just such an impressive
individual. And all of his time is organized.
And so I learned a lot by associating him with West
Point, in particular going on this trip. Now,
he'll go to the barbershop to get a haircut. Most
people go and pick up the paper or magazine. Not
him. He's always working on something. Reading it
won't be fiction. It may be some very scholarly
work that he wanted to be sure of. His time is all
organized. And he plays tennis. Obviously, he
plays tennis. He's an expert. He's really a
top-notch senior type of citizen. Of course, I'm
not sure he plays anymore because he's so old. But
he won't play with anybody that's not better than
he is. Of course, that's one of the big problems
right there, because he wants to challenge. He
wants to be pushed or stretched, you know.
So I say he was a very... For West Point, he's the one
who introduced this military sidecar and
leadership back, just like General MacArthur
did, although it was a little different than what
MacArthur did, because he felt as
superintendent, these are the things he needed.
But on this trip, he was going, and General
MacArthur had just been relieved. And so he was
going to represent the chief of staff, really the
president, I guess, but the chief of staff of the
Army and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, for
instructions to General Ridgway. You remember,
he took MacArthur's place. So he invited a member
of the MP&L to go with him because he knew that the
recent graduates had very high casualties. And
you had comparison. The class of 49 attended the
basic course, and they were . The class of 50
didn't, and they were sent there. And so we wanted
to learn as much as we could. about preparation for
the class that was just graduating, and also was
there a dramatic difference between the two as far
as cadets are concerned. And so he invited me. I was
the one who was named to go, which I was just
delighted because being there at West Point and
not in the Corral, I figured that sitting out the
Korean War, I'd never get promoted even the
colonels, because after all, we got people
fighting now, and I knew I didn't deserve it. So you
were eager to get in that war? Well, no, no, that's
currently a little too far. Oh, okay. Then let me
ask you this, what were your feelings about that
war? I mean, would you have rather stayed at West
Point, or did you want to go back to combat? Well,
see, I was, my conscience bothered me, see,
because Here I am, see?
And I was ambitious, because I wanted to progress.
And I knew that I was sidetracking myself. Now,
that was wonderful living there at West Point,
working those cadets with an inspiration.
Because they are really funny. I was also in charge
of the yearbook. And the cadets do all the work. And
I've told you, they have a curfew. They have to go to
bed. And they have to go out and get advertised.
and do all their schoolwork. And to plan that book
means that many of them are working up there on the
book at night instead of studying. Of course, they
have to be pretty smart kids to do this, because
that's pretty tough, West Point in particular,
since you can't crack the books like you do
elsewhere. So here I am with a beautiful set of
quarters. My wife's happy. She's got a music
class. Everything's going along fine. I love
football. So this was an opportunity to go. And I
had an opportunity, the reason I say that, to stay
there. Because they said, oh, great. Well, we need
battalion commanders. See, I was lieutenant
colonel at the time. And I probably could have
pulled it to where I stayed there. But I'm not going
to exaggerate and say that I was just so eager. And
they said, oh, no, because it wasn't that way. I
went there, and they gave me an opportunity to see
firsthand what was going on and interview all of
these cadets. With Maxwell Taylor. With him, too.
Now, he wasn't superintendent any longer. He was
the Pentagon after he was gone. I think he was chief
of operations. So we left, and all this time aboard
that plane, we were on a constellation. You know,
the old full-motor propeller jobs. We had to land.
I guess we landed in. Tacoma, and then in Aleutians
for refueling, and then to Japan. And like some of
those around in sleep, not him, he would be busy.
One, he speaks several languages. So while he's
there, he's reviewing his Chinese and Korean.
He's got a card file. I don't know what his system
is, but he's studying all that stuff. Finally, he
looks at his watch, and he says, well, it's
cocktail time. So he goes, gets up into his kind of
compartment. This was a VIP configured place. And
he puts on a sports jacket. And he says, ready for
the drink. He'll take one cocktail, wave it
around, you know. Now he's ready to talk, visit
with people. So he'd come and sit down by me, and if
somebody else said anything, he'd say, excuse me,
I'd like to talk to Andrew. So he'd ask me all about
MPML, you know, how has it been receiving cadets,
do you have any problems, anything I can do. Pretty
soon he's got a good readout of everything we do and
what the situation is. Then there are other people
that they always do go out on these tours that
represent everyone, a supply guy. You know, the
word goes out, we have room for 10 people, whatever
it is. Who do you want to go to? The war emperor. And
he goes and talks to them. Then he looked at his
watch and says, all right, it's time to eat. So we
eat the meal. And visiting time's over, then he's
back working. And we finally doze off in our seats
while he's still doing something. Now we land.
Each time we land, both being the first one to be
Tacoma, He gets out and exercises. Back and forth
he walks, back and forth, back and forth. We land in
Aleutians. He says, all right, let's walk from the
plane where we were up to the hangar. He said, the
time we get up there at a certain point and back,
it'll be refueled and be ready to go. So we did that.
Then when we got to Japan, and I was very fortunate,
Because he said, now, you stay with me, and you
receive all these briefings, too, because I think
this will be of interest to you, and you might learn
something that would be helpful. So I was able to
sit with him in Tokyo for the briefings there about
the war and everything about the situation. Now,
this is interesting because they're leaders.
MacArthur had already been relieved and gone, but
MacArthur's staff, is the one who's briefing us on
the entire situation, including his G2, his old
friend, you know, that's been with him all these
years. I can't call his name. Then we went to Korea,
to General Ridgway's headquarters. And, you
know, MacArthur had a peculiar setup. Of course,
he wore both hats, both in Japan, and also he wore
his Korean hat, the Spartan's hat. Plus, he had a
split command. The Corps under Allman, yeah, it
was Allman, reported directly back to him with his
hat in Tokyo and not to the hat of the overall
command in Korea. So he had a split command there.
And very few people ever understood it or why he had
it. So of course, the first thing Ridgway did was he
consolidated where that corps reports to him the
same as the other corps. But MacArthur, for some
reason, wanted that direct link to that. Because
he had his previous chief of staff, so he'd seen him
done. And he felt that he would have control of
that. And I say that's bothered military people
ever since then, why you never want to split
command. You can have nothing but trouble. And
they were even competing for support. So I went
there, and General Ridgway's new headquarters,
or his headquarters appeared, since he was moving
back to take over MacArthur. And Van Fleet, I think
it was, took over the command, or Ridgway's
command. So of course, the first thing Ridgway
was, he said, the Corps reports to you, like it did
to me. I had a briefing, and then I stayed with him to
the corps. What did they tell you at the briefing?
The situation? Yeah, just the situation. They
didn't get it about who got relieved or anything
like that. In fact, everybody stayed completely
awake. Sometimes they'd refer to a gentleman who
said this, but it has to do with the background of
what they were doing. Went to the corps, got the
briefing, both corps, and to some of the divisions
with him. And then he went to go back to Tokyo, but he
had told the headquarters there in Seoul that he
wanted the headquarters in Seoul as far as the
south. The front line was in Seoul, right north of
Seoul. He told me what my mission was and told them.
He wanted me provided with transportation and
anything I needed. Oh, they said, sure. As long as I
briefed them on the way back what I saw and what I
intended to take back. So I had free reign to
contact every single cadet. And some of them were
up under fire. Some of them were artillery units.
One was down in the engineer. He had a diving suit
on. He was down in the bottom of the Han River with a
torch cutting some of the wreckage of the bridge
down there. Of course, I didn't go down there to
talk to him. That's where he came up from. What they
had done, because of that yo-yo back and forth in
Seoul, the engineers had equipment to rebuild the
bridge. And they were in the way. Then the Chinese
came in. And the Chinese and the Koreans attacked.
And they got all the way to Seoul. So the engineers,
rather than haul that out, just dug with a
bulldozer and buried all of that equipment. That
is the bridging, railing, and all that steel down
in the Kwan River. And what did these cadets say?
Well,
they were just like they're trained. They said,
oh, they'd have been helpful, but we've gotten
along all right. And the comparison between the
ones who had the basic school, and that wasn't a
great deal of difference. Of course, the class of
49 said, yes, it was helpful. But the 50, they
really didn't know. They said, I think this is just
a small-arm war. You just get killed because
you're up there. You have close-in combat. And of
course, they all agree, as anybody, that of course
it would be helpful to have more, particularly
that engineer. See, he's not an engineer because
he graduated from West Point. He had to go to
engineering school to learn how to be a second
lieutenant engineer. So the consensus was that
they needed more schooling. Yeah. They would
agree that it would have been very helpful. But you
could come to one conclusion that when the chips
are down, they'll produce what the military
education they have at West Point. Mainly because
to graduate from West Point, you have to be a pretty
damn good... young man. Is that what you told
Maxwell Taylor when you went back? Yeah, of
course.
My purpose, and I got complimented on it by the
superintendent and the commandant, mainly the
commandant because he's really the one that runs
the Corps of Cadets.
I told the cadets that You know, the word came back,
and they do that in every war. We've been trained in
problems. Korea is not like any other war we've
ever had. So even if you've been to school, we've
wasted all this time because, look, here we've got
to do it this way. But the truth of the matter is,
many of them were relearning exactly what's in the
manuals to begin with. You get the time to stop at
425. Oh, we'll stop as soon as the end of this duty.
We'll stop whenever you want. And
the manuals of sound. Everybody keep relearning.
What if they go into that? They wouldn't have to
relearn it. The same thing about fire and
movement, plan, preparation. Doing it like it's
supposed to be rather than improvising.
Of course, you can be creative in certain things.
But to fight as a unit, you've got to go about the
basics of what you've been taught. If not, you've
just got a mob going out.
But the cadets, the class of 51, they went to basic
school. And of course, the war was kind of shut down
about the next year, 52, I guess it was. And we were
doing better then because we got sort of boxed in on
that Korean War. Yeah, right. Now, of course, the
Korean War had a couple of very interesting
affairs. One was MacArthur's firing. What was
your opinion of that? Well, I think you really had
no other choice. Either that or Truman would have
to resign because you can't. See, MacArthur, in
all his brilliance, He was a very arrogant
individual. He didn't have much respect for
Truman. Well, not many people did. I recall an
election, everybody just laughed. You couldn't
find anybody who was for Truman. And that's the
reason the guy with the mustache in New York, he had
a shoe in, you know. This little comical guy.
Before the election, you couldn't find anybody
for Truman. Dale went out and voted for him, see.
Because he wasn't a comical little guy. He had that
squeaky voice and certainly a terrible speech
maker. But he, like we were talking about others,
he had standards. And even though he was involved
with our politics in Kansas, nobody ever could
find anything that tarnished his reputation,
even though he worked for the Pendergast machine.
Kansas City, yeah. Yeah. And so he was a little guy
that had standards and a strong feeling and
probably will go down in history as one of our great
presidents because of accomplishments. Of
course, he had a lot of help with Marshall, for
example, a lot of good people. But he made the
decision. And so he should be given credit. So
MacArthur placed him in an untenable position.
See, he was going along with him until he just
flat-wrote members of Congress contradicting
what the president said and disagreeing with the
policy. And in essence says, I'm going ahead and do
it like it should be done, see, in the way he thought
it should be done. Now, he probably was correct on
his strategy. But we don't have an anarchy in this
country if we ever get in a position where the
military can just disregard what you're saying.
Two, that he had no He had everything against him.
See, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, all younger than
him, much younger, you know. He hardly even knew
them. They were all, he looked at them as plebs at
the military academy, which is, while he was
superintendent, they were even plebs. So he just
ignored them, see.
And he didn't figure the president, that's all.
He just thought he could do that. Of course, I can't
read his mind what he thought, but his action
indicated. Now, we had a little situation at West
Point that turned out all right. Because I have
great respect and admire MacArthur. I think he's
one of our great leaders, but not perfect by a long
shot. In our yearbook, I said I was the awesome
charge of the yearbook. I have all four of our
yearbooks over there. We wanted to dedicate this
during the Korean War. dedicate the yearbook to
General MacArthur. So it had all gone to press. It
was dedicated to him. And we had his picture in it.
And here comes the president, and he relieved
General MacArthur. So the cadets came to me and
said, what are we going to do? So I said, General
MacArthur has been relieved of our yearbook. I
said, you want it to continue to be? Oh, yes, sir.
But we have the same fee. I said, well, let's plan on
doing it, but I'll have to go clear with the
commandant, who's Paul D. Harkins, who's up in
Dallas now. He's still alive and living in Dallas.
So I went to Paul D. He was a colonel at that time. He
retired as a lieutenant general. He was one of the
first commanders in Vietnam. And he said, well,
what do the cadets say? I said, they want to leave
that yearbook just like it is. Plus, it cost us a
heck of a lot of money to redo that and take all that.
Anyway, General MacArthur knows we've dedicated
this book to him. And this would really be a
slapping insult to somebody who thinks that, see,
once again, we've entered into politics, which is
not. He said, well, I certainly agree with you. He
said, I know the superintendent will agree. So he
just called him on the telephone. And he didn't ask
him. He said, this is what we're going to do. And the
superintendent said, oh, yes. He had a different
suit than Michael Taylor's long gone. So we had the
book out and we made the presentation, which they
always do. The cadets go up to the White House and
make a presentation of their book. Naval Academy
does the same thing to the president. And the
president, he didn't have anything to say about
that card. He also, deep down in his heart, he
respected him. But he said, I just can't accept
that. And, uh, There was another affair, of
course, that was going on in Washington at this
time and sweeping across the country. And that was
this McCarthyism and the intense
anti-communism. And even by 1953, when you were in
Iran, of course, with the attacks that Senator
McCarthy leveled against the army. And I was
wondering what your opinion of McCarthyism was.
Well, it's very difficult to express that in
words.
I don't think the man was normal. Of course, we know
now he was an alcoholic.
He was like a mad dog. Yeah, he got the general of the
army. also the Secretary of the Army, but the
Secretary of the Army kind of stood up to him. But
that general, he just, boy, he just, the general
was right. See, that's the hell about him. No
question about it. And I think MacArthur knew
that. I mean, MacArthur, because
he played for the media. Oh, that's a dark page in
our history, wasn't it? Well, did that have any
impact at the officers up at West Point? Did they
ever discuss this man? Well, I really not in that
context. I don't remember anybody being
not as much as critical of the unjust treatment of
him. But they still browbeat. members of congress
get a great kick out of when they get witnesses just
here recently you know on the tank the m1 tank they
were getting a general who's a project manager and
he had the other people in he kind of talked back to
this guy which that's not good technique he's
going to point they're the last control thing but
he was telling about the gao And their findings of
how inefficient, expensive, and really stupid
the M1 tank project is because you wouldn't order
all these things before you had the deficiencies
fixed, you know. And this general, I forget who his
name, all the generals now knew they'd been on aid
and most of my contemporaries were all gone.
And this general explained what the situation
was.
He said, are you saying that the GA report is a lie?
He said, no, I'm not saying that. I'm telling you
what the situation is. He said, but the GAO, if you
say it's not a lie, not going to lie. They say it's
different than you. So this general finally said,
well, do you believe me? Am I lying? Well, he kind of
backed off and said, well, no, this seems to be a
different. He said, yes. I think we're expert.
Nobody in GAO is the expert in this field, and
they're not. I don't care if they're retired and
then go to work for the GAO. They're still not up to
date. The only one who's up to date is the project
manager and those that are actually tested and
working on it. I don't know of any time that we've
ever had people that go up on the hill to purposely
mislead anybody. They'd be foolish if they did,
because, gosh, the truth. You can't hide these
things. And I've heard them go up and be perfectly
frank about mistakes that we made. Yes, we should
have done it.
But McCarthy sees it that way, and I'm playing for
the media, particularly. But just think of the
really good people who he ruined their lives.
by guilt, by association.
No, I have to say that's a dark day in history. There
were some who were communists, or at least leaned
towards communism, but not the large number that,
especially out in Hollywood, it couldn't write.
no livelihood. So what they had to do, they wrote
under pen names. They still did the same thing, but
didn't get near as much money because they
couldn't demand money. It's almost a handout.
They'd write a screenplay or that and peddle it.
And they'd say, well, you know, we can't use any of
your material because you've been blackballed.
Well, we've been in trouble. So they changed their
name. Or let somebody else's name be put on. And
years later, some of those people are exonerated.
You can't just like sending somebody to jail for 20
years and find out they're innocent like he said
all the time. How do you ever compensate for that?
Impossible.
Well, would you like to say anything else about
West Point before we move on to Iran?
No, I can't think of anything. Well, let's go to
Iran, but let's wait until tomorrow. Okay. And
then we'll start with the really fascinating
period in Iran.
A few words more about West Point before we move on.
Okay, great. Because it's a lesson we can all learn
from what happened there in the early 50s. It was a
cheating scandal. Oh, yeah. I don't know if you
remember that. I discussed with you earlier that
it's about as near to a perfect environment as you
could find in that everyone's equal, of course,
except the plebs in the class system. But for
example, no one can have money there. So it doesn't
make any difference if you're the son of a
millionaire or if you're from a poor-form country
like I was. You're all there, all the same thing,
uniforms and so forth. through the years,
athletes live with their own company. The only
difference, and they ate with their own company.
The only difference was if they would go any
afternoon for two hours out to football training
or any other athletic sport. And if they weren't
out for varsity, of course, they'd go out to
intramural. Everybody exercised.
The great teams during the World War II, which, of
course, the Military Academy had the advantage
because a lot of the great athletes went there.
Foreign education, also. I don't mean to
necessarily draft Dodgers, but obviously the
reason why West Point had a real powerful team
during the war years, undefeated and that sort of
thing. Post-war, then they were competing with
other colleges on an equal basis. And, of course,
Notre Dame was always their arch rival, even more
so than in the Naval Academy. And that became
almost a religious war. They played in New York,
you know, using Yankee Stadium. Always a sellout,
of course. And you had this tremendous
competition. So to compete, the military academy
was given, I think it was 30 appointments. Norm is
congressional, and there's several categories,
but normally they're congressional appointees.
But they had authority to get 30 scholarships,
approximately. So they started recruiting
athletes,
and they shouldn't have ever been recruited, as it
turned out later on, because they couldn't keep
up. They couldn't compete. They couldn't make the
grades. That's right. And so now they moved them
into a like we have at A&M and all the schools where
athletes live together and have a training table.
So they lived together.
You could call it an athletic company or a football
company. And they ate together on a training
table, ate differently. And they were recruited.
So these people tended to identify themselves
more with the Army athletic program than they did
West Point and the cadets. duty on and country.
And A&M had two sections academically. I mean, at
West Point. They had two sections academically.
And so you had one group that went at one time, and
every day they had a test. Then they passed on those
to the other section between the answers to it.
And, of course, the smart ones did that. They
didn't have these dumb-ups doing it, and
everybody would fail. So that was their attempt to
keep these so-called cadets proficient
academically so they'd be eligible to even stay
there because they would be separated
immediately if they didn't do their job. Now,
involved in that scheme was Red Blake, who was
really a fine individual, his son. handsome young
man, smart. He was at the head of his way. He wasn't a
star man. He wasn't the top academically, but he
was way above the average. But he felt obligated
not letting his father know anything about this,
that he would help out on this. So he was sort of the
leader of organizing how we're going to get the
answers to these other guys. And they did. And that
went along until finally... For how long did this
go on? It probably went on for maybe as much as a
year. I don't know. But one or the other. And
another thing, it was so well organized, they knew
who they couldn't trust, you know, in other words,
those who were still duty on in country, lie,
cheat, or steal, and won't tolerate anybody who
does. And so some way they had it so well organized,
these young people were isolated and wasn't aware
of it. Till one day, one of those stumbled upon
this. I guess he overheard it or something. So he
immediately, as you're obligated to in the honor
system, to report it, see, what he had heard and who
the individuals were. So they immediately
investigated. And they started looking into
this. So some of these players that had been
recruited went to Coach Blake and said, this is
what the situation is. They've asked us to testify
and
a lot of people involved with this and it'll
decimate the entire program. And Blake was
shocked. He really was. He says, you immediately
go tell everything you know about it. And you
encourage everybody else. We're going to get this
cleared up once and for all. What is the result?
About 40 something around that. I've even
forgotten. We're, of course, separated from the
school. And what really broke Blake's heart and a
lot of other people, including those with his son,
who should have never been contaminated with that
kind of thing. But anyway, he was as guilty as the
rest of them because he passed on information. And
so, of course, the moral of that story, the lesson
we learned is that
if you deviate from custom in something that's
real fine, for the short-term game, you know,
winning football game. Because they weren't
making money. They didn't like a great big
athletic program. Well, of course, they're
supporting their own program. But it isn't a case
of trying to compete worldwide or nationwide,
like Notre Dame, for example, with their
recruiting program. All they did is just disgrace
military academy. It took them, oh gosh, several
years to get over that. And it took several years
for that. The athletic program actually has never
recovered from that. Because you get some
athletes now, you try to recruit them to go to West
Point. Of course, now everybody thinks about
professional football and big contracts. Sure.
Well, just like their graduate now, who's a
lieutenant down at Benning. He worked out with the
Cowboys because he hoped to do like Staubach here.
He fulfilled his obligation. to still be able to
play, but he doesn't have the talent to stall back
there. Well, that's the end of the West Point idea.
Vince Lombardi was there as assistant coach, but
he wasn't involved with this. He was assistant
coach before, there for one year. Did you feel that
Congress put a lot of pressure on West Point? In
what way? Did Congress, as far as the
investigations were concerned today, I mean,
I've heard sometimes that, you know, the military
academies are sort of a nice whipping boy for uh
congressman no i don't think so not now i don't know
about this last you know we've had another team i
don't know anything about that now that might
apply in that case because i think downey from up in
new york personally because that's in his area
sure that's pointed then he has a responsibility
but no there was absolutely no pressure in fact uh
The reason why you would sabotage, you would
demolish the school if you permitted that to
happen. And I think this last time they tried, some
of the cadets thought there were so many involved
that they wouldn't possibly investigate this.
Look what a disgrace this would be if they would try
to paper over it. But it wasn't the case with that
athletic thing. I was all out on that. mainly
because you had to coach himself. He was such a
shock. Now, he's, of course, a graduate, but he is
just a tremendous guy and a leader. That's the
thing about it. He was getting good results out of
the normal cadets that you would get through
appointments. Of course, you get a lot of good
athletes by normal appointments,
congressional, because that's who you're
looking for. In the high school, some of these
outstanding young men go to West Point. They're
high academic. They're captain of their team. No,
I was there at that time, and there was no pressure
at all. In fact, I think they felt sorry for the
situation. Sorry that it occurred. They weren't
sympathetic with a cheater. Well, let's turn to
the next assignment, and that's advisor to the G-3
of the Imperial Iranian Army. And this was 1951 to
1954? No, that was two years. I went in 1952 to 1954,
wasn't it? Yeah. Yeah, because in 1955 you
attended the Air Forces Staff College. 1952 to
1954. Okay.
Tell me about this job, all your functions and
duties. Well, I was assigned there initially,
doesn't show on that, as advisor to the commanding
general staff college, school there, let's say.
And I arrived in the commanding general there,
General Zimmerman. He got to know me. I didn't know
him previously. He decided he wanted me to perform
a duties of the G3 of the mission and G3 of fighting
to the Iranian army. So I took that job and the one
who was going to have that, he went to the command
and staff school. And
our mission, the mission of the Army, the Armed
Forces of the U.S. was to train and equip an army for
internal security.
Not even defense, of course, that would be far, but
it was to maintain internal security or stability
in that part of the world. Same thing we're looking
for today.
And it wasn't easy for several reasons. One reason
is that
most of the army was illiterate. Most of the nation
was illiterate as far as that's concerned.
Obviously, the Army would be. But the Army did have
a program, very helpful, in that they did teach
them at least to read and write. And it was
difficult also because
while the officers gave lip service, to wanting to
improve training, to enhance the standards of the
armed forces. They wanted to do it their way. And
their way was, you never get out in the field and
train. You always come back in the barrack. They
said they didn't have any money for benzene or
gasoline, but in fact, They did have, but couldn't
get it, although Iran wasn't booming like it was
when the shell was there with all this income for
the price of oil.
So we only provided that equipment, like trucks,
some small tanks or artillery pieces,
and trained them to use it. But to give you an
example, our difficulty with Iranian, and it's
typical of Iranian, is that we had a meeting
because we had arranged, got the benzene for them.
We were going to take them to the field of division
and give them some field training, which they
hadn't been out in the field for a long time. So we
had this big meeting with all of the Iranian, the G3
of the Iranian Army. The chief of staff of the
Iranian Army also was there. So we all just planned
this exercise and gave a date. And all of the means
were provided. And so when the date approached, I
went out to join in the exercise. Wasn't anybody
there. And I went back to
the department of Army building, the office, and
there's all of them in the office. I went to the G3. I
said, well, we're supposed to be out. What
happened? He said, well, we decided we wouldn't
go. I said, well, why didn't you tell me? He said,
well, and he attended our command of Staff Guard.
He said, sit down, Colonel Andrews. I want to talk
to you. He said, you must understand, in our
countries, sometimes we have commissions in
order to do nothing. Well, I said, why didn't you
tell me that's what we were doing, having a
commission in order to do nothing? He said,
because we like you so much. We don't want to
disappoint you. I know how you feel about this. The
general, who was Zimmerman at that time, later on
McClure. Well, that opened my eyes then, because
then I knew that you're going to have to approach
him entirely differently. How did you change your
approach? Well,
it was very difficult, but You had to work, and we
didn't have any advisors in the field. You had to
work then through the G3, talk to him. But I went
down to the division commander. And in this
instance, it was General Bakhtiari, who was a
brother-in-law of the Shah. And he was very
receptive. Oh, yes, he wanted to do that. He
actually warped the digs and got out. We worked
with him, and he got all set. Then I talked to him and
said, now, General Bakhtar is all ready to go on
this. And unless you disagree, this is the way
we're supposed to conduct it. And they'd say,
Bali, oh, yes, that's fine. Another
example of Iranians, they had a small parachute
group. We had about one officer and I think eight
people. They had C-47s that they were flying a few.
And they had Azerbaijani Day. That's the day they
celebrate. They say, the Iranians say, they
kicked the Russians out of Azerbaijan. But you
remember Harry Truman told them that they better
get out of there or else. So each year. So they have
the Russians there. We're all in there on the
attache sitting there. So the planes fly over and
out jumps the parachute. But they continue on. And
another stick comes out. And here comes another
plane and another stick. And the Russians sitting
next to me, I got a guy to interpret. They were
talking. I said, what did they say? I said, the
Russians just said they had no idea that the
Iranians had that many paratroopers. Well, what
they had done, see, the live jumped out first. And
they threw out dummies all along at a greater
distance. And they had troops on the ground
hidden, you know. So when they got down, they all
came up all intact towards the target. And I could
go on and on. We gave them trucks, and then we gave
them, of course, antifreeze to put in the truck.
They thought they could fool the truck by not
putting it in there, so they didn't put the
antifreeze in. And they sold it. Of course, all of
the blocks burst. It gets real cold in a lot of areas
in Iran in the wintertime. Another example of some
of their thinking is we had a terrible C-47 Iranian
Airlines crashed up near Tehran during Christmas
time in a snowstorm. And when it turned out,
looking at the records, they had 10 more people in
that C-47 than was safe. But they weren't on the
manifest. Loading them in Abaddon, this guy
thought that if he didn't, missed them on the
manifest, see the plane wouldn't know the
difference. This is just a man-made rule, you
know. And that's what you're faced with, with
training these people. They have their own
approach to a problem, their own set of values, and
it's very difficult to penetrate. But as I talked
about yesterday, Iran, of course, as you know,
being not a homogeneous nation,